Once we have covered justify content as well as the on line items why don't we do a small project where
in fact we do set up our hero component.
Now when I say hero component I mean a massive background image and then within the background manage
there's going to be some kind of title.
Now first and foremost we're going to need one image.
We only need one image so I'm going to head over to the pixels.
Again you can download whatever image you like.
I'm gonna go with.
I don't know beach I guess.
Let's go with beach.
I think I'm gonna pick this one let's save images.
I'm gonna save it in my project.
So when this stop I have like mock sartorial and in here I'm gonna go with hero BCG OK something like
that.
That's step number one.
And then let's roll back to our project and in fact I don't want to pollute the actual tutorial within
the next session email.
So we're gonna create a new file going gonna call this banner h t email again we're going to set up
in fact our H mouse Carlton.
That's number one.
And then you know what may be within the next issue email why don't we set up a link so that way we
can easily navigate back and forth.
So right after the container I'm gonna set up a link and Link is gonna head over to a banner HD e-mail.
Okay so where are you uh where are you.
Link.
Let's see let's see let's see let's see.
And of course I can see the link because I didn't type anything manner aged yet.
Okay.
When we say it and of course I navigate to our page which currently is an empty page then let's head
over back to the email once.
Right.
Banner example and so on.
For some reason I deleted it.
Let's save it.
Okay.
I do have my banner example that works out really well.
Then I'm gonna set up the body and here within the body there's gonna be two things.
So first of all we're gonna come up with a header element and we're just gonna add the class of hero
and also let's place a hearing 1 like so with a our page title page title.
Save that.
Okay.
That's already a good start.
Let's refresh it.
Now we can see it and you know it also lets and maybe a link back.
Let's go with link.
Let's go with index.
I am out and back on something like that.
Now next I like to set up.
In fact my header which is not gonna use right now any flex box.
But like I said I would want to create a hero component.
So we're going to do something that we already have done few times before by setting up a background
image.
Now I could create an underclass solution and all that but in order to save time I'm just gonna go with
style tags.
And then within style tags why don't we first get rid of some default bindings and margins.
So I'm going to write margin zero to all of them.
And you're not.
I think I can just skip the padding.
Then as far as we have the header rect so let's target a hero class that's first and foremost.
Let's add some background just so we can see where we are operating.
And I'm gonna go with red.
And then after that since we would like to place this title in fact in the center we're gonna have to
have some height.
And I do prefer using the viewport height because that doesn't set the absolute values.
In fact it sets up the values for screen sizes right.
So usually what I like to do is set up the mean height and I'm gonna go in this case with hundred percent.
Now what this means is that even though the content of this particular component or I'm sorry element
I guess is smaller or would be smaller than hundred percent.
What I'm saying here is men height.
So regardless of the content that's sitting within this element the height of this element is going
to be a hundred percent.
So as you can see the moment I start scrolling This is where I see the link.
And the screen size this hundred percent is going to be whether on this stop or a phone or whatever.
That's the reason why I like to set this up.
Now instead of going for a background of just color or red in fact we're gonna set up our image.
Now the syntax for that is you are all let's say is sitting here hero BCG.
So let's type hero B C G and then the full extension is J.
Okay the moment we set this up of course we do have our background image and everything works really
well.
And next to help there's few things that we will need to clean up.
As far as the image is concerned.
First of all probably would want to place it in the center.
And you know what.
In this case I'm gonna go.
In fact with a long way instead of setting up everything within one line because I think it's gonna
be easier for us to understand.
So we have a background position and we need to set this in the center.
So let's start with the center.
So let's place the image in the center.
Then we also like to use background and then we have the size background size and we're gonna go with
cover to make sure that our background always covers the space that we have for our element and then
also when we go with background repeat no repeat background repeat no repeat and optionally we can come
up with fixed where the image is gonna stay fixed and enforced crawling.
In fact we're going to have deeper likes effect.
Now maybe I'm gonna leave that one for last.
Because I'm mostly interested in working with this title in a setting this up in the center.
So we have our image we have our awesome hero component and then our main goal is to place this title
exactly in a center vertically as well as horizontally.
Now first of all why don't we add some kind of parameters for our title where I'm going to go with let's
say a text transform I'm pro case work.
So that's number one.
Then let's also go with font size bigger font size would say 60 pixels and maybe just so we can see
it a little bit better.
Why don't we go with color.
I'm gonna go with red.
Let's see how that works.
I think it works fine.
We have our page title and then like I said all the knowledge that we have from the Flex box.
I'd like to use it to place it exactly in the center.
And this is as easy as writing three lines of code.
So first of all hero.
Remember that is our parent container.
And like I said the same thing works even if we have only one child.
All right.
So the same setup we have our Flex parent and then we have our Flex items that are our children and
for the Flex parent first and foremost we set up display as flex.
That's step number one.
And then remember in order to set it up horizontally what we needed to use now we are justified content
and instead of flex start why don't we just set it equal to the center.
And now it's sitting in a center horizontally and then it would like to place it actually in the center
vertically.
It's as easy as it gets a line items and center and that's it.
And literally with three lines of code and of course I'm not counting setting up this mean height and
whatever whether we would like to have some background or background image.
OK.
I'm not counting that.
So technically I'm a little bit cheating but the whole idea is very simple with three lines of code.
We are setting up this in a center.
And believe me prior to flex box it was much much more painful in order to do that.
So that's the beauty of the Flex box where even though we have the grid and we can of course use the
grid later on once we cover it I do still find it flex box very useful because it allows me to set some
type of layouts very very quickly.
Now lastly like I said I would like to cover how we can background attachment fixed.
So why don't we do this let's say right after the header.
I'm gonna go with Dev on that has a class of banner banner linked so I'm gonna leave it empty.
And as far as banner is concerned again I'm gonna go with banner main height is going to be again hundred
v height just so I can see that it is a hundred percent of the screen background is going to be color
of I don't know blue and.
Like so.
And then you'll notice that is going to be of course my banner and then let's set up a background attachment
for my image.
And again this has nothing to do with the flex box.
This is just has this attachment effect that creates that parallax effect.
So background attachment fixed and once we set it up for our hero a number does not put a banner.
This is for the hero.
Now this gives you as you can see as we're scrolling we have this parallax effect where before if we
don't have it as you can see the whole page scrolls the same way but if we have this background attachment
a fixed well we do have this parallax effect.
Now we do need to be careful though because some forms do not support us.
So when you're setting this up as you're looking at your project on a phone while the phones are not
going to support it.
So you need to be careful about that but like I said our main goal was to show that with three lines
of code now that we know in fact flex box well we can set up everything in the center whether that's
horizontally or vertically.